INTRO TO STATS M PYTHON

Statistics is the study of how to collect, analyze, and draw conclusions from data. 
It’s a hugely valuable tool that you can use to bring the future into focus and infer the answer to tons of questions. For example, what is the likelihood of someone purchasing your product, how many calls will your support team receive, and how many jeans sizes should you manufacture to fit 95% of the population? 
In this course, you'll discover how to answer questions like these as you grow your statistical skills and learn how to calculate averages, use scatterplots to show the relationship between numeric values, and calculate correlation. You'll also tackle probability, the backbone of statistical reasoning, and learn how to use Python to conduct a well-designed study to draw your own conclusions from data.

1  Summary Statistics

Summary statistics gives you the tools you need to boil down massive datasets to reveal the highlights. In this chapter, you'll explore summary statistics including mean, median, and standard deviation, and learn how to accurately interpret them. You'll also develop your critical thinking skills, allowing you to choose the best summary statistics for your data.
What is statistics?

Descriptive and inferential statistics
Data type classification
Measures of center
Mean and median
Mean vs. median
Measures of spread
Quartiles, quantiles, and quintiles
Variance and standard deviation
Finding outliers using IQR

2  Random Numbers and Probability

In this chapter, you'll learn how to generate random samples and measure chance using probability. You'll work with real-world sales data to calculate the probability of a salesperson being successful. Finally, you’ll use the binomial distribution to model events with binary outcomes.

What are the chances?
With or without replacement?
Calculating probabilities
Sampling deals
Discrete distributions
Creating a probability distribution

Identifying distributions
Expected value vs. sample mean
Continuous distributions
Which distribution?
Data back-ups
Simulating wait times
The binomial distribution
Simulating sales deals
Calculating binomial probabilities
How many sales will be won?


3 More Distributions and the Central Limit Theorem


It’s time to explore one of the most important probability distributions in statistics, normal distribution. You’ll create histograms to plot normal distributions and gain an understanding of the central limit theorem, before expanding your knowledge of statistical functions by adding the Poisson, exponential, and t-distributions to your repertoire.

The normal distribution
Distribution of Amir's sales
Probabilities from the normal distribution
Simulating sales under new market conditions
Which market is better?
The central limit theorem
Visualizing sampling distributions
The CLT in action
The mean of means
The Poisson distribution
Identifying lambda
Tracking lead responses
More probability distributions
Distribution dragging and dropping
Modeling time between leads
The t-distribution


4 Correlation and Experimental Design


In this chapter, you'll learn how to quantify the strength of a linear relationship between two variables, and explore how confounding variables can affect the relationship between two other variables. You'll also see how a study’s design can influence its results, change how the data should be analyzed, and potentially affect the reliability of your conclusions.

Correlation
Guess the correlation
Relationships between variables
Correlation caveats
What can't correlation measure?
Transforming variables
Does sugar improve happiness?
Confounders
Design of experiments
Study types
Longitudinal vs. cross-sectional studies
Congratulations!


